Classes can be identified by their fully-qualified name. A FQN is a globally-unique reference to a class equivalent to the path of classes required to reach the class from the top-most level. What the top-level is and how to reach a class depends on how the source code is declared and what language it's written in.

# Terminology

A FQN is a sequence of class names, joined by dots. Each class name is known as a component of the FQN.

A FQN's base is its last component. It's the class name that comes after the last dot, except for FQNs with only one component, in which case it's itself.

A FQN's root is its first component.

A FQN's parent is the FQN without its base (not defined for FQNs with only one component).

Examples:

|FQN|Parent|Base|Root|
|---|---|---|---|
|`a.b.c.d`|`a.b.c`|`d`|`a`|
|`a.b`|`a`|`b`|`a`|
|`a`|N/A|`a`|`a`|

Additionally, there are special names for classes relative to another class.

The *module* of a class is the class with a FQN equivalent to its root. Modules are always top-level classes (i.e. are not nested within another class).

The *container* of a class is the class with a FQN equivalent to its parent.

Examples:

|Class|Module|Container|
|---|---|---|
|`a.b.c.d`|`a`|`a.b.c`|
|`a.b`|`a`|`a`|
|`a`|`a`|N/A|

# Determination rules

For some languages, the FQN of a class involves the directory its in, or its location relative to the sources root. In some other languages, the FQN can simply be explicitly declared. Refer to the documentation for a specific language's compiler (e.g. `oomlc-python`) to get the actual implementation and behaviour details for that language.

Given `a.b.c.d`, here's an example of a class that would have the above FQN:

<!-- begin tabbed sections -->

# HTML

A class's FQN is its containing class's FQN concatenated with its own name.

If it is not a nested class, then it is considered a top-level class. Its FQN is simply its name.

```html
<template ooml="class" name="a">
  <template ooml="class" name="b">
    <template ooml="class" name="c">
      <template ooml="class" name="d">
      </template>
    </template>
  </template>
</template>
```

A class can also be given an explicit FQN:

```html
<template ooml="class" fqn="a.b.c.d"></template>
```

The value of its `fqn` attribute will be used as its FQN, regardless of its containing class's FQN (if applicable).

# JS

In file `a/b/c.js`:

```javascript
export class d {
}
```

# Python

In file `a/b/c.py`:

```python
class d:
  ...
```

# Java

```java
package a.b.c;

class d {
}
```

<!-- end tabbed sections -->

# Existence rules

There can never be two classes with the same FQN, regardless of whether they're actually the same class. An error will occur during compilation if such a situation arises.

A class can have a FQN even if no class exists with its parent. For example, it's possible to have `A` and `A.B.C` but no `A.B`.

# Referencing

How to reference another class also depends on the language used. Outside of HTML, it most likely involves using the language's standard import system. Consult the language-specific compiler documentation for more details.

Here's an example of a function referencing the class `A.B.C.D`:

<!-- begin tabbed sections -->

# HTML

Every expression for a value of a property or field, as well as every function for a method, gets access to an implicit variable called `o`. It is an object whose properties are the names of top-level classes, and their values are the actual classes. From then on, it becomes possible to access any class.

```html
<template ooml="class" name="SomeClass">
  <m name="someMethod">
    function () {
      new o.A.B.C.D();
    }
  </m>
</template>
```
 
`o` can be shadowed, overwritten, or mutated, so be careful.

It's also possible to shorten the reference if using a class from the same module or container:

```html
<template ooml="class" fqn="A.B.C.E">
  <m name="fromModule">
    function () {
      return new this.module.B.C.D();
    }
  </m>
  
  <f name="fromContainer">
    function () {
      return new this.container.D();
    }
  </f>
</template>
```

`module` and `container` exist on every instance and class.

If there are gaps in the range of FQNs (e.g. `A` and `A.B.C` exist but `A.B` doesn't), then any gap is simply filled with a static class that functions as if the gap didn't exist. As an example:

```html
<template ooml="class" fqn="A"></template>
<template ooml="class" fqn="A.B.C.D"></template>

<template ooml="class" name="SomeClass">
  <m name="someMethod">
    function () {
      console.log(o.A.B);    // Logs something like "{ C: { D: [ooml class] } }"
      console.log(o.A.B.C);  // Logs something like "{ D: [ooml class] }"
      new o.A.B.C.D();       // This works!
    }
  </m>
</template>
```

HTML also has a special way to refer to classes in declarative contexts, such as class parents or type annotations.

In these examples, the target class is `A.B.C.D.Exciting`, and the class doing the referring is `A.B.C.D.Eggplant`.

An absolute reference can be used. This requires the entire FQN to be written.

```html
<template ooml="class" name="Eggplant" parent="A.B.C.D.Exciting"></template>
```

If the target is in the same module, the module component can be replaced with a caret (`^`):

```html
<template ooml="class" name="Eggplant" parent="^B.C.D.Exciting"></template>
```

Additionally, the reference can be relative to the current container, by adding a dot (`.`) for each ancestor container to start from:

```html
<template ooml="class" name="Eggplant" parent=".Exciting"></template>
```

Continuing the depth is possible. This refers to `A.B.C.D.E.Fantastic`:

```html
<template ooml="class" name="Eggplant" parent=".E.Fantastic"></template>
```

Add a dot for each level higher. This refers to `A.B.C.Door`:

```html
<template ooml="class" name="Eggplant" parent="..Door"></template>
```

Add a dot for each level higher. This refers to `A.B.Cool`:

```html
<template ooml="class" name="Eggplant" parent="...Cool"></template>
```

The following refers to `A.Blue`. Probably better just to use the module-relative syntax.

```html
<template ooml="class" name="Eggplant" parent="....Blue"></template>
<!-- Same as above, but easier to understand -->
<template ooml="class" name="Eggplant" parent="^Blue"></template>
```

Don't go higher than the module. This is **not** allowed:

```html
<!-- Invalid parent reference -->
<template ooml="class" name="Eggplant" parent=".....Zero"></template>
```

<!-- end tabbed sections -->
